[Music]
so hi everyone as Paula said is going to
be the last token and we are going to go
into a panel but before going to the
panel I would like to talk about the
distributed web so Who am I I'm David I
work in a company called protocol apps
and I'm a software engineer in
peer-to-peer systems and also a
researcher there a protocol labs we
develop technologies well
protocols to make the web better and as
we have seen throughout the
presentations today the web has some
issues things like identity
communications interoperability play a
huge deal in creating rich ecosystems
that people can create their businesses
on however we have seen growing in the
last decade of like walled garden so i
decipher Meishan where people are just
controlling users information and as
Marc Andreessen put in 2011 like
software is eating the world and today
it's not even a question anymore if your
business should be online and what that
created was that like today in like
every minute like tons of data like
terabytes and terabytes of data are
generated online video news images
messages etc and because the way that it
read was designed it was designed to be
done from the beginning thanks to the
end-to-end principle and some other
architectural decisions we keep passing
the same bits in the wire over and over
and over again to illustrate this let's
look at a simple example like if I want
to watch a video in a platform like
YouTube and imagining that we are eight
hubs away from YouTube we are actually
more I checked like 40 knobs from this
venue but I just to make it simple let's
consider eight so like if we want like
to watch a simple video maybe around
like 200 megabytes like an other
high-res video and we have like turning
machines here of people trying to
download this video we will put like an
effort of like 48 gigabytes of data
passing through the wire like hopping
from YouTube to our user our user
machines but like something
is wrong in this picture right like if
the first user gets the data and if they
are in the same area as the all the
other users why are we going to the
backbone again like why are we going to
force the network to transfer the same
bits over and over again and these
numbers get scary for example if we pick
the video Gangnam style the screenshot
that we see here that was watched more
than two and a half billion times it's
like the most-watched video in this
eatery of YouTube we have more than
alpha of an exabyte of data passing in
the wire and probably a lot of these
views are actually from the same machine
because I believe everyone has
experience where they are seeing a video
in YouTube Vimeo or any other platform
and they click refresh in the browser
and suddenly starts loading again it
starts on loading the whole thing again
we like engineers as a network engineers
as software engineers try to solve this
by putting CDMS in the middle by putting
like the content more close to the user
but this doesn't really solve the
problem just a simple patch we still
have the added delay of the number of
hops that from our machines to where
they see the ends are located and
telecoms that also has been trying to
solve this problem with it added away
with like larger pipes like they are
increasing the bandwidth that they
deliver to users homes but unfortunately
even with all that effort like we don't
see the bandwidth increasing as fast and
as soon as we would expect we can see
like this is a projection or like data
from 2007 to 2012
so already like a little bit old but we
can see that the wine and the average
connection speed is pretty much flat ok
the exception to Japan in Japan isn't a
special case and what we have seen also
is there like as users generate more
data and a storage gets cheaper people
will just like pass more and more data
over the wire which means like if the
bandwidth is not increasing steadily and
in a faster place and the data that's
being produced is increasing really
really fast the internet will just feel
swell like if we could continue with the
same behaviors the same architectures
the internet will just
feeling slow just because the data that
we are transferring is like too large
for the pipes that we have set up and
worse even if we had like perfect
connection multiple gigabit fiber
connection to every home it doesn't
solve every issue we were promised like
a decade ago by telecoms and I big
software companies that everyone is
going to get connected do not worry like
just build your app your service on the
web and it's all going to be fine but if
we think like that's not the reality at
all like in cases where there's like low
bandwidth like if you are in a remote
area or in a developing country you just
don't have like the connectivity that
you are used to experience in a
developing country like something like
interference like more and more there's
more devices in the same room sharing
the same space and there's a lot of
interference in these radio signals that
we use there's congestion problems there
is also outage like the other sentient
can go down like it has happen in the
past from fires - just like power being
cut I doubt that sender's going to go
down and when that happens it doesn't
matter if you have a really nice fiber
connection to your home the service is
just gone and what we see is that all of
these services that we use today that we
used to communicate with our loved ones
that we used to run our businesses rely
in the assumption that we are going to
be always connected and as soon as we
disconnect from the backbone gone like
all these things like million billions
are lost in value every year each time
there is like a knowledge of internet a
DDoS attack that just like targets a
service and then suddenly all the people
that are using that service cannot use
it for two days and I it's a usual us
and not to speak about other problems
that I could go in in more depth but
like security still a problem we keep
armoring the wire pulling HTTP
everywhere but it really is like the the
the data is not encrypted at rest so
someone can just go there change the
data and we could not even tell there is
a really big problem of IOT like the web
model it doesn't work for IOT so it's
being kicked out of all these devices
and people are building custom private
protocols to develop their IOT solutions
there is a problem with permanence like
keeps wings keep being broken we keep
losing data and also problems with
censorship and control where countries
governments can shut down the internet
for an entire population just with like
a kill switch however it's kind of
ironic because the web was meant to be
distributed in the same way that the
internet was designed to be distributed
ARPANET the system that eventually
evolved the internet that we have today
was a communication platform to offer
the US government and military to resist
nuclear attacks like the whole design of
the system was like if all of the
country vanished the harder house could
still work here we see like Robert can
like showing the first designs of the
ARPANET and he's explaining his store
and forward technique like this
technique to transport data over all of
these hops and like to enable the hops
to be smart enough to route the data
through other paths if an outage happens
but over time and although the web
started as distributed and for it
started shifting to a centralized
architecture which is kind of
understandable it's a way more model to
reason about like it's way more simple
to understand and there is like some
opportunity costs and some social
economic reasons and pressure that made
it move to a centralized architecture
nevertheless the fact is that it doesn't
have to be centralized at all in fact
like we are destroying a lot of value or
losing the ability to create a lot of
value by it being so centralized and we
need to bring it back to become
distributed so that we can take our
services our apps our information to
places where right now it is not
possible and it is with this frame in
mind that I welcome you all to enter
ipfs the interplanetary filesystem ipfs
is a content addressed filesystem
it changes the model of the web from a
fragile location bates weather domain
name resolves an IP to a name resolving
to a - content unique identifier so what
does this mean changing the model so in
the traditional web
through HTTP you are looking for some
resource and then you do a domain name
resolution and you find the machine
that's responsible for that resource the
central point of authority you contact
that machine and you get the resource
back the problem is like when there is a
network split like when you lose
connectivity to that machine or even
just like lose connectivity to the NS
and then you don't know which machine
has the reserves right and when it's
happened is when the web breaks but with
ipfs it changes because we are
requesting a contact identifier it
doesn't matter who serves me the content
I just need to touch it as the network
who has the content and then I can
verify that I received the right content
and if there is a network split it's
okay as long as the content waves on my
side of the network I'm totally fine and
even better like if I already have the
content myself why should I go into the
network in the first place like I can
just like close it it's kind of like
beating the speed of light you just like
well discipline easily so ipfs in
essence is a collection of great ideas
from production-ready systems already
deployed and a lot of ideas that are
present on the academia and distilled
down together to create these better
primitives for the web today we have two
implementations of this protocol that
are developed one in go and one in
javascript the one in go is for the
users that are looking to build systems
with ipfs and want to leverage the full
system resources to maximize the the
data distribution and the JavaScript
implementation is focused on putting
ipfs on the browser yeah like it is
possible it is possible to run a fully
distributed protocol on the browser
without installing any plugins at all
and of course this uses the peer-to-peer
transport of the browser where were
kissing so what is inside ipfs like
starting from our self describe all data
types like we use always self
describable data types to enable us to
support several types of cryptographic
ashes several types of addresses several
types of encoding of data like from get
blocks to interim blocks to native ipfs
any kind and also we pack our
identifiers of the content more than
just the ash value of the content itself
but also with a codec that describes
what type of data that content is so
this is like very useful for parsers and
query engines because it actually level
like bring up the extensions the type of
the file and then like all the data in
ipfs is a secure data structure like
everything is represented as a bag and a
secret graph and every link is a merkel
link merkel link means that like it's an
out in like a secure link you check it
by its ash the idea of like secure links
which we call merkel links comes from
ralph merkle the creator of the first
medical tree and we you might be
familiar with Merkel trees because you
might have used them on git you might
have used them on the blockchain or even
if use software like BitTorrent or that
you are also using moralize data
structures and by the way I need to make
a note like whoever says that money
doesn't grow on trees didn't expect with
coin to come along so intuitively ipfs
is this a miracle forest wherever you
merkel eyes that the structure can with
and can be a reference to then we also
have packed distributed naming which
every inspired in a self certified file
system it's basically naming gets like
digitally sign so it's a way more secure
model they're not just trusting some dns
point with some TTL value for designs
then we have our network layer that
could grow up to become a standalone
project that other groups are using
called we peer to peer we peer to peer
is a secret sauce that enables us to do
ipfs in the browser and also in desktops
native applications because we can just
change the properties of the network
stack keep the same primitives the same
addressing and like the app that's
running on top doesn't even have to know
that it changed the runtime so we get to
hear a lot developers saying that like
ipfs is the layer that i always wanted
as a developer and it is the way that I
always expected the web to work as a
user so what are people building with
the distribute
well it seems like it's a great protocol
for distributing video like video and
streaming because like you you can even
put like more quality video on the
network and because everyone is going to
be streaming this video it's just going
to old faster we go documents people are
using this because since you can
authenticate every piece of data that
you receive through ipfs it is perfect
for like documents that they have to be
they have some legal integrity there is
apps like like ipfs pics you can go
online today and like pull your photos
pictures of this event ipfs speaks and
then not only share have a shareable URL
you also have like the content - so that
like even if ifs pics is online you can
still fetch these these pictures
apparently 3d models and VR worlds are
very big so ipfs is like the perfect use
case to to transport those models
scribble building games scientific data
like moving tons of terabytes of
scientific research data this is
actually one of the main motivations
that led to the develop of ipfs blogs
and websites and totally distributed
apps and more right so we have started
like the conversation is still in the
early beginning but like we see a lot of
interest of like do some
cross-pollination between the writing
project and ipfs and we think we can
learn a lot from each other and reuse
some parts and call as some of the
efforts for example we peer-to-peer the
secret sauce that can give you the power
to run in a browser or any kind of
device really independent of the
capabilities of the device it's really
modular so you cannot just pick the
pieces that you want the transport that
you want pack it into your application
and if there is some some missing piece
you can always plug it in and like
enrich the network stack with the
picture that you need another thing
that's also very interesting is IPL D so
as we've seen like we think levels
leverages the json schema spec and jason
schema is super useful because it gives
context to the data like you we can
reason about the content the data that
we are passing through the only serious
issue with json schema is the fact that
like it requires a URL like you can see
at the top there is a URL that like if
we are not able to resolve this name it
means like this that has no
alone but with ipfs you can like throw a
schema ID and then you can like not only
cash the the schemas more efficiently
you can also like retrieve them from
your local peers from your local network
so it makes it enables everything to
work in scenarios that it will not be
possible before you can see even the
user got more happy sure
so really wrapping up so ipfs it is a
protocol to upgrade the web we don't
want to create an alternative web it's
it's the way that internet was built
like we can change lawyers and in the
end if the user if we'd adoption of EFS
the user will just notice that he's
using IP FS because the web will work in
scenarios that it didn't work before and
faster so it's a protocol to make the
web offline to make the web smarter this
use permanent safer and especially
faster ipfs is a very large open-source
project we have more than 350
contributors like coming and 70 come
every week from the Kadima yeah like
doing research review checking our
specifications we have people from the
industry trying out our api is and like
the point products we have people that
just come and contribute like to do with
code like they even our management like
our sprint management of the development
is completely open so anyone can just
come and join the process everything is
on get up and IRC you can go to get out
calm flash ipfs and we will have access
to all the code everything is MIT wisest
and again everything is documented there
we work as a distributed team so we
write everything down so yeah this is
what I have to share with you about ipfs
today I hope I managed to get you
excited about ipfs as much I am thank
you again for inviting me excited to be
part of the panel so open for questions
so we're not two questions before the
panel I'm curious do you end all dynamic
server-side dynamic content are you
server side every comment does it have
to be server side
yeah because I think most of the web
nowadays web pages are generated
dynamically at the servers okay so even
today like there is a lot of pages that
generate dynamic but like there's also
like this like now there's a lot of
pages being rendered at the client so it
can be really at any point in the I can
be in any node on the network but the
way that we handle well let me just jump
to the slide which I didn't have a lot
of time to explain is this an
interplanetary naming system so while
this here is showing is that like
instead of me pointing you to an ash of
the content and like pointing you to a
fixed point on the model of data I point
you to the ash of a public key and
actually the public key is resolved
about in a system like a DHT and you
fetch the the records that are digitally
sign on this DHT and they will have
pointers to actual ashes of content so
me as a producer of content as a
producer like if I have my blog or my
page I can use feed or something I can
update the the data model and then
publish these records to the network if
you want something more faster than HT
so that like you want your feeds to look
like real real time that's where like
pub/sub comes in you can subscribe to
feeds authenticated feeds and like when
you receive an appetite on that feed you
always validate the digital signature
evaluate that you are receiving an
update from the provider that you trust
and then you just get the way the state
and then you fetch that hash fetch it
content from the network I was thinking
more things along the side like like a
shopping cart like if I go to Amazon and
I have a shopping cart yeah it's genuine
Amex we generated for me by the server
each time I reload the page so you could
have a mix of dynamic and mostly static
content okay so in that model what I
we see happening is like if you have
like if you are serving your webpage to
HDTV and if you have the data stored
somewhere in a network and if you have
to always like mix and match something
to serve to the user what you have is
ipfs on the server and ipfs is the one
fetching maybe assets for like I know
pictures of the the items that you are
putting on the shopping cart but in the
end you are building still like a very
traditional like server-side application
you're just using a TFS maybe to make it
more efficient to store the data in your
data center or across data centers the
the way to make that shopping cart
distributed is like to move completely
like that app into the like the front
end the client side and have the client
update the network itself as it touches
the shopping cart as it like it goes
through the store and you are like those
two models and there is like things
again distributed education is really
important because like you want to make
sure that the user can tell the world
hey I want to I decide them and it's me
like when I'm going to purchase make
sure I just purchase the things that are
from my cart
but yeah so you can do both models I
think you will benefit more from
rendering everything on the client side
then on the server thank you one more
question
hi so I have actually two questions
first one is do you think by this by
your method a PFS you mean to replicate
the data to series of hops because it's
not concentrated in one server that it's
replicated to a lot of servers let's say
distributed throughout the network do do
so is you are you playing to exchange so
communication so to increase latency by
just replicating data throughout the
network instead of just pushing from
from one side on the server of course so
is the first question second question is
how who is paying for all that storage
because there is no centralized card
provider who is yeah ok he's holding
that storage space and and of course it
makes it takes money to to hold that
data ok awesome Thank You excellent
questions we do get that a lot so ipfs
he said transport is a protocol that
works as a transport so we don't force
contrary to other protocols that exist
in this space that like force users to
store data for other users we are not
forcing anyone to store anything so in
this case that we see here like these
other users will only have the data if
they request it first themselves so that
they can I also reshare it with the rest
of the network what we are building on
top of IP FS though so like again ipfs
doesn't push data into anyone's machines
without users request it's a really
important part because we won't we don't
want people to be responsible for data
that other people are like trying to
store in a network what we are building
on the Bob ipfs is another protocol
called Falcone and Falcone is a crypto
currency incentivized solid network
where I'm able to pay two nodes that
volunteer in a network I think about
like Amazon s3 but with a canonical way
to contact nodes that offer storage in a
network I can say I have these files and
I have this money and I want to pay
someone that volunteers 20 years offers
to do the work of like storing these
files for like a period of time for me
and then we have a proof of
durability that we will check overtime
if the file is still like vegetable from
the network and for the nodes that are
like serving that file over that period
of time
we'll get compensated for storing the
file for me so this enables anyone with
discs to plug it in in a network and the
part of this like economy where we can
like pay to ever lots of replicas we can
pay to have replicas in very fast points
of the network we can pay to have
replicas in in point of the network
where it's very hard to like have data
serving there in remote areas like again
developing countries there is no data
centers there and the latencies are just
huge so we can pay to the users of like
local remote places to store content so
that they when they request the content
is very close to them
[Music]